In this next demo, we'll work with BitLocker in EFS.
It's challenging, to say the least,
to cover so much ground in just the space of a single,
short demo, but I'll do my very best.
Let's do a search from the Start menu for BitLocker,
and it brings up an entry called Manage BitLocker in Control Panel.
And of course, this is the old school classic Control Panel.
And as long as your system supports BitLocker Drive Encryption,
you can use it to protect not only your system drive,
but any other drives.
D and F,
my data drive and my ReFS file that I created in the previous demo
are considered removeable for whatever reason,
and there we use BitLocker To Go,
which is largely the same thing as using traditional BitLocker Disk Encryption.
Now this system does not have a TPM in it.
We can verify that a couple different ways.
We can type tpm.
msc to open the Trusted Platform Module console,
and it says Compatible TPM cannot be found.
So if I want to continue to use BitLocker,
I'm going to have to do a little hack here in Group Policy.
Now I'm going to be working with Group Policy locally on the system.
From Run, I'll do gpedit.
msc.
That opens the Local Group Policy Editor.
In the editor, I want to go to Local Computer Policy,
Computer Configuration, Administrative Templates,
Windows Components, BitLocker Drive Encryption,
and then if we're going to operate on operating system drives,
we'll go to the Operating System Drives option.
I'm going to sort these settings alphabetically,
and I want the Require additional authentication at startup group policy option.
I am going to open this up, we're going to enable the policy,
and we're going to make sure Allow BitLocker without a compatible TPM
requires a password or a startup key or a USB flash drive.
And then if we do that, we can configure policies.
I mean, if your system did have a TPM chip,
you'd want to obviously leave that unchecked,
and you can allow or require the TPM used,
and then choose any additional authentication methods if you want to.
I'm going to hack this, so I'm going to not allow TPM,
and I'm just going to leave the other ones at Allow as opposed to Require.
A startup PIN is a personal identification number.
A startup key is a specially formatted USB dongle.
You could just use a USB flash drive.
And then there's an option to require both the startup key and PIN.
I'm going to OK out of Group Policy,
and then in order to make sure that I've applied the policy,
let me open up an elevated PowerShell console,
and let me do an Invoke-GPUdate on my localhost.
So now I can step through the process of turning on BitLocker.
It's first going to do a check, and then after it passes the check,
it asked how do you want to unlock the drive at startup?
Then you choose how you want to unlock the drive,
either inserting a USB dongle or entering a password.
I'll enter the password, confirm it, click Next,
and then you have to back up your recovery key.
I'm going to save it to a file.
And I have a mounted disk here somewhere, don't I?
Well, just for now, I'm going to put it on drive F.
And it can't be in the root directory of removeable drives,
so I'm going to create a folder called bl for BitLocker,
save it in there.
Now this is obviously a very, very sensitive file.
Anybody who gets that file will be able to unlock the
disk by supplying that recovery key.
See what I mean?
The options are to encrypt used space only or to encrypt the entire drive.
I'm just going to choose the first option here.
And you have some additional options for encryption mode.
I'll leave that at the default.
Are you ready to encrypt this drive, run the system check,
and it's going to require a restart to do that.
So because we have more work to do here, I'm going to pause that, and I'm going to go right into EFS.